So, OpenAI just dropped GPT 5.5 and it
is really solid. But the question is how
solid is it? And the other question is,
is it more expensive and how does it
compare to Opus 4.7? Because obviously
you can look at the benchmarks which
there are some pretty impressive things
especially when you are comparing it to
Opus 4.7. But of course, what we want to
do is actually get in there and get our
hands dirty. So, I ran a bunch of
experiments and I'm going to share with
you guys what actually matters when you
think about the cost and the speed of
these different models. So, we'll come
back here to the results and to the
experiments that I ran in just a sec,
but real quick, let's just go over some
of the release details. So, GBT 5.5 is
OpenAI's newest model, the most recent
version being GBT 5.4. This is OpenAI's
new flagship model. It was codenamed
Spud when people kind of saw the leaks
and stuff, and it is being positioned as
OpenAI's smartest and most intuitive
model to date, and it is a purpose-built
step toward aic and enterprise
computing. Now, what's really
interesting is that the pitch isn't
that, hey, this model is just better at
everything. The pitch was kind of that
it does more with less. So, fewer tokens
per task, less handholding, and more
autonomy. And that's what really got me
thinking about, okay, how could I run
some experiments to see if that's
actually true? Unfortunately, right now,
we don't have the API. It will be
coming. It's in Codeex. It's in chatbt.
I'm sure by the time you're watching
this video, the API will probably be
out, but I saw the announcement and I
just jumped on it and wanted to play
around. So, a quick quote from the
president of OpenAI. It's faster,
sharper, and it uses fewer tokens
compared to something like GBT 5.4. Now,
let's see where it pulls ahead a little
bit. So, the Terminal Bench 2.0, it
scored a 82.7, whereas GBT 5.4 scored a
75.1 and Opus 4.7 scored a 69.4. So, it
is beating Opus here on the terminal
bench. And it's also beating the
previous model. They also ran an expert
bench internally. And if I actually go
to the actual site here, you can see
that they didn't compare this to Opus
because it was internal, but they did
compare this to GPT4. And you can see
based on this chart once again, it is
doing more and it is costing less output
tokens. And the output tokens are the
ones that really matter because they are
more expensive than the input tokens. So
what else do we got here? Harder
problems, better answers. So there's a
few other evaluations here. We've got
the GDP val which is for knowledge work.
We've got the Frontier Math and we've
got the Cyber Gym. And you can see here
GBT 5.5 is beating out Obus 4.7 and
Gemini 3.1 Pro in all of these except
for this one down here. We didn't pull
in Gemini 3.1 Pro. But right here, these
benchmarks alone are very impressive,
especially this one. There's quite a big
gap right here. Now, it is important to
note that the SweetBench Pro still does
belong to Claude Opus 4.7, and this was
being able to pull in real GitHub issues
and resolve those. And that's why it's
all about actually putting these models
to the test and seeing what you think.
Now, the other important thing to notice
is that the price has doubled compared
to GPT 5.4. So, it was 2.5 in and 15
out, and now it's five in and 30 out,
which is actually a little bit more
expensive than Opus 4.7. Opus is the
same on the input, but it's about $5
cheaper on the output tokens. But, of
course, apparently GBD 5.5 uses less
output tokens, so it's going to be
cheaper either way. And that's what I
wanted to show you guys in my
experiment. All right, so four quick
things that really do matter. The token
efficiency, same quality output with
fewer tokens. Autonomous decomposition.
So, it's taking vague prompts,
identifying what's unclear, and then
taking the next steps and executing. So,
when I ran this experiment with all
four, I shot off one prompt, and I
didn't let it ask me any questions. I
just shot off a prompt, and I wanted to
see what its first iteration looked
like. This also comes with some codeex
upgrades. So, things like tool calling
or multi-agent parallel execution,
reusable workflows, stuff like that.
They also talk a lot about security. So,
if I go back into the release blog real
quick and I just go all the way down to
the bottom, obviously we saw stuff with
Claude dropping Mythus and talking about
security, but right here, advancing
cyber security for everyone's safety.
These frontier models are becoming
increasingly more capable in cyber
security and these capabilities will
become broadly distributed and we
believe the best path forward is to make
sure that they can be put to use for
accelerating cyber defense and
strengthening the ecosystem. And then
finally, we have super app positioning.
JGBT 5.5 is the intelligence layer for
JGBT codeex and Atlas. So they're trying
to sort of obviously have this whole
ecosystem. All right. So what is no
longer here in the lineup? Apparently we
got these kind of models cleared out. So
no longer using these models. And if
you're using GBT 5.5 within Codeex, you
will be getting a 400,000
token context window compared to Opus
4.7's 1 million token context window.
All right. So before we get to the
experiment, four quick takeaways for
founders and creators. One, agent coding
got an upgrade, but Enthropic still
leads real world suite. Two, the price
doubled. So look at your unit economics
if you want to make a switch,
specifically if you wanted to make a
switch from GBT 5.4 to GBT 5.5. Number
three, OpenAI is a platform play. Number
four, release cadence is a content
liability. 6 weeks from 5.5. Anything
model specific ages really fast and that
can make it really stressful, really
overwhelming in this time where every
company is shipping. Every company wants
to compete with each other. And with
every new release, it's apparently like
changing the game or the benchmarks are
skyrocketing. So that's just why I think
it's important to not just think which
model is the best, but think about okay,
for this use case, what are the
benchmarks that might align here and how
do I actually run a quick experiment
between two models to see which model
fits me best here. So there's a few
quotes that people are saying. I'm
actually not going to read these off
because you can find them on the blog or
you can pause the video and look real
quick. Obviously, it's not the full
thing, but let's actually go into our
showdown of Opus 4.7 versus GBD 5.5. We
ran four different experiments. We did
an AI modeled personal brand website. We
did a solar system type of simulation.
We did a space shooter game. And we did
the finale, which was just building like
an actual ecosystem type of simulation
game. I'll show you guys what I mean by
that, but let's hop into these
experiments. Okay, so the first one was
building a personal brand site. So, this
was the prompt that I used and it didn't
ask me any questions. It basically just
oneshotted this and then we were able to
get an output. So let's real quick first
look at GBT 5.5's output. And one thing
I do need to preface is I'm using GBT in
codeex and I'm using Opus in cloud code.
So people might get mad and argue that
this isn't a model comparison. This is a
aentic coding harness comparison. I mean
sort of yes, but obviously the model is
what is powering it. So I just wanted to
clear that up. All right. So here's
Codex's personal brand site. We've got
Codeex. We've got a really cool dynamic
thing going on in the background. Got a
nice drop shadow behind this. A nice
little interface. The model in the room.
Precise enough for code. Curious enough
for messy ideas. Calm enough to keep
going. Let's click on how I think and
see where it goes. Okay. So, we've got
another little context map visual. We've
got this mode console that's apparently
interactive. Okay. I'm not exactly sure
what that's changing, but you can click
on those buttons. We've got a
verification loop, and it says, "I
prefer evidence over vibes. Run it,
render it, read the diff, site the
source, or admit the uncertainty." Let's
see what we missed up here. A working
partner for the whole arc. So clarify,
build, verify, adapt. Very nice. If we
come down, um, keep the goal visible.
Okay, we can expand these or close these
out. I'm not a search box with better
manners.
And then here's the end. Bring the
question. I will bring the shape design,
coding, writing, reasoning. Okay, cool.
So that is what the personal brand site
looks like for Codeex. And then here is
what I did for um Claude Code. Pretty
much the exact same prompt. I did say
don't use superpowers because I wanted
to see sort of as raw as we could get.
It did use the front end of design skill
which I think is fine but same prompt.
Now I know I could have done this in the
uh cloud code desktop app because I use
the codeex desktop app. I don't know why
I decided to do VS Code just cuz it's so
natural to me. But let me pull up this
site. All right. So here we are with
Claude's site. We've got a nice little
scrolling banner up top. We've got
another kind of animated visual element
right here. A million context window and
some latency stuff. a thinking machine
in the margins of every idea you're
trying to finish. Something's weird
going on with those Fs, just the font, I
guess. But this looks really nice. I
think they both looked from a design
perspective pretty solid. So, what can I
do? Give me a messy brief and I'll find
the clean shape inside of it. I read
whole code bases, argue with
spreadsheets, rewrite paragraphs, blah
blah blah. I can reason through hard
problems. I can write like a person. I
can write code. I can find the signal in
your spreadsheet. I can build a thing
end to end and explain it like I've seen
you squint. So, I don't love the way
that these kind of change font and and
uh like compress. Also, I noticed if you
click on these, it just takes you back
to the top of the site. Not exactly sure
why that is, but how I think so, this is
kind of a cool visual. It's like a
little sort of animated token thing. I
think that's a nice touch. I speak in
tokens, not words. Okay, thank you,
Claude. Every word looks at every other
one. I think this is cool. So, inside
the model, each token weighs its
relationship to every other token.
Thicker lines mean to pay more
attention. So kind of like looking at
the weights in here. I think that's a
nice little visual. A million tokens of
memory. So it also shows us like system
instructions, your code base, reference
docs, working memory. I think this is a
very nice illustration here. And then we
have this little thing down here. I
branch before I commit. So it's got this
nice visual here. I'm not exactly sure
what's going on. It's showing us a
chosen path and a literal and a lateral.
And then we've got some other things
going on down here. just the way it gets
to its best answer, I guess. So,
that is the difference between what
Claude thought its personal brand was
and what Codeex thought that its
personal brand was. They definitely have
different feels. I mean, this very feels
like OpenAI branded and this very feels
anthropic branded. So, pretty cool.
Okay, so all of that stuff is pretty
subjective. So, let's look at the actual
statistics here for this experiment
number one AI model site. So, first of
all, look at the speed. GBD 5.5 was
about 4 minutes and Opus was about 14
minutes. Look at the difference between
the input and the output tokens. I mean,
this one was way more on both ends. Also
had more requests. And you can see that
this costed GBT about a dollar if we
were doing API billing, and it would
have cost us almost $5 with Opus 4.7.
And by the way, if you guys are curious
how I was able to get those stats, I
basically just asked it to look within
its JSON L files, and it was able to
give me the time that it started, the
time that we came back, and all the
tokens. And it worked pretty much the
same way across using claude, but also
if you do the same thing in codeex, it
can look at those logs and get that
information for you as well. But
anyways, number two was a solar system
kind of simulation. So this was the
prompt. Once again, gave the same prompt
to Codeex over here and to cloud code.
So let's go ahead and pull up the
results. We'll start with Codex. All
right, so here is Codex's version. The
first thing I noticed here is that this
looks kind of squished. Like the aspect
ratio here doesn't look great, but I
like the rest of the design. You can
click on these planets and you get sort
of like, you know, some information over
here. And you can speed up the
simulation. So, if we go to 100x, we can
see all of the things orbiting. The sun
has a weird like box around it. So, from
a design perspective here, not the best,
but as far as like functionality, this
is what we were looking for. Now, if we
open up Claude's version, we can see we
have that slider down here. We can go up
to 100x. Visually, this one looks better
because the aspect ratio of everything
looks okay. The sun has a glow that
makes more sense. You can click on the
planets and you get a um description
over here. I also like how when you
click on the planet, that orbit ring is
like the only one that you can kind of
see, which is cool. Um so once again,
this is all subjective. Personally here,
I like um Cloud Co's version more, but
let's take a look at the actual stats.
Okay, so for the solar system one, this
timing was a little bit more close. Um,
Opus finished about a minute later than
GBT. We can see from an input token
perspective, GBT took more, a little
over double, but from an output token
perspective, GBT took less. But this one
still ended up being cheaper from Opus
4.7 by roughly a dollar. So, in this
case, Opus 4.7 definitely wins because
it was cheaper and I liked the output
better. Okay, let's move on to number
three. We have a 3D space shooter demo.
This was the prompt that I shot off.
Once again, no iteration, no back and
forth, just a first oneshot prompt. And
let's take a look at what we got for
both Codeex and Cloud Code. All right,
so here is GBT's version. We can use our
mouse to look. We use WD to move around.
We can use shift to boost. And we use
space to shoot. So basically, these
games are shooters, right? So I'm able
to shoot at these um what are they
called? Comets. asteroids. And I can
move forward.
Um, I can use shift to boost. And the
physics here feel very nice. Like the
speed, you can see at the bottom my
velocity. If I change directions, that
goes down. This feels very smooth. Um,
the sound effects are a little weird,
but as far as like playability, this
feels pretty solid. You can see we have
a whole integrity. So, if I just crashed
into one of these, I'm assuming that
would go down. Okay. Yep. Very nice.
And our score goes up when we shoot
these asteroids. Okay, now here we are
in Claude Codes version where I can go
ahead and initiate. It looks like the
controls are pretty much the exact same.
Now, right off the bat, this feels a bit
clunky. It feels a little bit less
smooth. The sound effects are a little
better, but I don't like the feel of
this one at all compared to the last
one. It's like hard to control. My mouse
is snapping. It's It just feels buggy.
But everything else, honestly, like it's
about the same. From a design
perspective, it's harder to see. So, I
definitely think that GBT 5.5 wins this
one. Like, no doubt. And obviously, that
was all subjective. So, let's take a
look at the stats that matter. GBT
finished in more than half the time. It
also used less input tokens and less
output tokens. Had a few more tool
requests, but that doesn't really matter
as much. With GBT, this would have
costed us under $3. And Opus 4.7, it
would have costed us 4.5. and we would
have had to keep making changes and
iterate. GBT 5.5 definitely takes the
cake here. All right, and now for the
last one. This was a big boy prompt. I
dropped in this entire thing. So much
bigger, much more to think about. And
let's go ahead and take a look and see
what we got. Okay, so here is our
simulation of codeex. This is our living
ecosystem. We can see we have
population, generation, fitness, and
some other stuff. And I can speed this
up and I can watch this ecosystem
evolve.
Looks like right now it's Okay, it's
starting to drop. Let me actually slow
this down. I can drop in some food, I
think. So, sprinkle food. Oh, the
button's up here. Okay, so nothing seems
to be working when I'm trying to
sprinkle food and I'm trying to spawn
more. Nothing seems to be working. And
unfortunately, the population is dying
out. So, I'm real quick going to go back
into Codeex and I'm going to ask Oh,
wait. But that's really interesting. In
this version, the population looks like
it's making a bit of a comeback, but I
guess I just don't really understand how
I can control this. So, I'm just going
to go ahead and ask real quick. Ah,
okay. So, food only works on grass or
forest. Spawn only works on land. I
didn't necessarily want it to make a fix
because I wanted to see how good it is
just by default. But let's see if I'm
able to spawn some food in here or if
I'm able to spawn some creatures. Okay,
so I'm able to spawn creatures, but
maybe it's just not visually showing me
that I'm sprinkling food when I'm trying
to. Well, anyways, for a oneshot prompt,
it's not great. But let's also go take a
look at what Cloud Code was able to do
on one shot to compare. Oh, sorry. Also,
one more thing you can do is we can
click on a creature and we can see kind
of like how it's evolving. We can see
the energy, the age, the size, the
speed, radius. We can we can just look
at them in different ways. Um, kind of
interesting. But anyways, here is Claude
Code's version. So, it looks similar. I
think honestly like aesthetically,
visually, this one's makes more sense to
me. I can kind of see the land and I can
see what I can do. Sprinkle food. Let's
see if I can drop food in there. Nice. I
can spawn creature. I can also spawn
creatures in there as well. I can save
the top genome, whatever that means.
Okay, that just downloaded some sort of
JSON file. But when I was playing around
with this, what I've noticed is I think
that there's something wrong with this
code. For example, all of the creatures
are just staying in one fixed location.
I don't even think they seem to be doing
anything with the food. They just seem
to die and then they just die and then
the population hits 10 and then it just
sticks at 10. So, if I speed this up,
you can see that this is going to hit 10
and then it just stays.
So, I don't know exactly, you know,
obviously there's an issue with the
code. Once again, this was a oneshot
prompt, but if I add more, it just goes
back to 10. So, there's something in
there that's stuck. The logic isn't
working. And if I switch back over to
Codex's version, it's kind of a similar
thing. Like, it just doesn't actually
work. The logic doesn't work in order to
make this like a legit simulation. It
doesn't seem like at least. Or maybe I
just need it to speed up faster where we
actually see something. So, let me speed
this up and just see if it can go past
10 at all. Yeah, I mean, I don't know
what's going on. Look at this poor soul.
He just died. But, um, yeah, I don't
think I'm able to sprinkle food. So, so
anyways, none of those are perfect. And
what we would have to do obviously is we
would iterate and we'd come back and we
would give some feedback. But, let's
take a look at the stats here. Kind of
interesting. So, GBT 5.5 took almost 10
minutes and Opus 4.7 took about 12
minutes. Now, GBT5 took way more input
tokens here, like double. But also, look
at how many output tokens it used
compared to Opus 4.7. Now, it's
interesting because GBT 5.5 still costed
us more here because of how many input
tokens it took. But that is really
interesting to me that it's able to only
output about 28,000 tokens. And we're
still able to get an output that's
basically the same. Like this is
basically the same as this. Like pretty
close. but it took a fraction of the
output tokens which is just really
interesting to me. Okay, so if we zoom
out and we look at all of these
statistics as a whole, we did four total
experiments. Total runtime between the
two was about an hour and GBT total
runtime was 20 minutes 49 seconds. Opus
total run time was 40 minutes and 43
seconds. So basically double the run
time. Input tokens, they were honestly
pretty similar. 2.7 million over here
with GBT and 2.5 million with Opus. But
the alpha tokens tells a very
interesting story. It's about 70k
compared to about a quarter million. And
then total cost, it honestly came out to
be pretty even, but GBT was about three
bucks cheaper over these four
experiments. But if every single time
you do it, it's a fraction of a bit
cheaper with GBT 5.5, then in the long
run, it's going to get more and more
cheap. So I won't dive into all of these
other graphs because I think we've
already kind of understood the
differences here. But GBT5 is green.
Obus 4.7 is blue. And for the majority
of the time, GBT is in the position that
we would rather be in. Meaning, it's
less and it's less and it's less and it
is less. I could have just said all four
that GBT was less. But anyways, that is
going to do it for today. I hope you
guys enjoyed this little experiment. I
really encourage you to just hop into
ChatGBT or, you know, plug in GBT 5.5 in
your automations via API or maybe even
hop on Codeex and play around with it a
little bit. I am a firm believer in not
one tool being the best, but figuring
out which tool to use for your use case.
I've been playing around with Codeex a
lot. I just haven't started making
YouTube videos too much on it yet
because I don't really want to overwhelm
you guys with too many things and I know
I've been uploading a lot lately. So
maybe you are overwhelmed either way and
there's so many new features. But like I
said, just try out new tools. So if you
enjoyed the video or you learned
something new, please give it a like. It
helps me out a ton. And as always, I
appreciate you guys making it to the end
of the video and I will see you all in
the next one. Thanks everyone.